# DAT250: Design and Prototyping Assignment B

## Java Persistence Architecture

In this assignment you are required to implement a first prototype of the domain model for the application developed as part of assignment A.

You must use the Java Persistence Architecture (JPA) to define the entity classes required in order to store information users, polls, votes, and devices etc. in a database. You can use the setup with the Derby database and the JPA that you created in software technology assignment 2:

https://github.com/selabhvl/dat250public/blob/master/expassignments/expass2.md

### Part 1 - Entity classes and ORM

Implement the classes, attributes, and relations from your FeedApp domain model in Java. Use JPA to define the entity classes required in order to store information about users, polls, votes, and devices etc. The information stored in the database must also capture the relations (associations) between the classes.

As part of the this, you also have to define the persistence unit for your application. It might be a good idea to start adding one class to the application and check that corresponding database table is created (see below). Gradually, more entity classes can then be added.

Persistence units and object-relational mapping (ORM) are explained in Chapters 4 and 5 on JPA which can be found at Canvas.

After having deployed the application, you should inspect the database and check that the correct tables have been generated by JPA.

### Part 2 - Loading data into the database

In order to test the implementation in Part 3, you should populate your database with some test data.

This can be done either by writing an SQL script to the load the data (see Page 120 in Chapter 4) or the JPA entity manager.

### Part 3 - Data Access Objects (DAO)

Implement a number of DAO classes which encapsulates the typical operations required to store and retrieve data from the database. You should implement the methods which you find are required in order to cover the use cases that you have defined for your application. Remember that you need to use an entity manager to persist and retrieve data from the database.
